STEP 1:
Login into your metamask extension and select an account in it for testing. At the top in
networks select Goerli test network.
STEP 2:
Now go to https://goerlifaucet.com/ and create an account upon creating the account
enter your metamask account address in the text field and then click on send ETH
This sends you around 0.2 Goerlieth per day for testing purpose we can call it fake ether
STEP 3:
Now open remix-ide in another tab navigate to deploy and run transactions tab and in
the environment select Injected-metamask provider. This will connect your metamask
account to your remix-ide.
STEP 4:
Now go to home tab in remix-ide navigate to workspaces and in default_workspaces tab
select contracts and in contracts folder select storage.sol option. An ide will open up and
in that ide paste the solidity code which is present in Smartcontracts.txt.
STEP 5:
In the Deploy and Run transactions tab select on Deploy smart contracts don’t forget to
specify your metamask i.e on which account the smartcontract should be deployed.
After clicking on deploy the smartcontract the metamask pops out for transaction
confirmation and the smartcontract will be deployed.
STEP 6:
Now open a linux terminal in your system if you are a windows user you can make of
windows subsystem for linux for running shell commands.
STEP 7:
Open the github https://github.com/cehguru/Batch2-vignanblockchain.git and git clone
this repository. We have uploaded all our project files to github for data backup.
STEP 8:
Upon cloning change the directory to Batch2-vignanblockchain and type
$ ls
This will show you the contents of the repository
Now check your node version by typing
$ node -v
If the version is below 10 then type
$ nvm use 18
This enables you to use the latest version of node
31
STEP 9:
 Now to run this script you should have some latest dependencies we generally cannot
know what depenedencies to use so simply type
$ npm install
This will install all the dependencies that are required to run the project
STEP 10:
Now the dependencies got installed further we have to run the project on local host for
doing it just type
$ npm run
This will start the react scripts and runs your project on http://localhost:3000/
STEP 11:
Open your localhost and you can see the project is running this interface is called react
app now in the first page you are asked to fill the form details of the student i.e keeping
in mind that you are the issuer. Fill the form and then click on add certificate. The
metamask pops up once again and asks for transaction confirmation confirm the
transaction. This will add certificate data to the blockchain and a hash will be returned
to you.
STEP 12:
Now click on view certificate there you can see a generated certificate with your details
and hash id retrieved from blockchain in it
STEP 13:
Now copy the hash and click on verify option. A new tab will be opened there paste the
hash you have copied and click on verify.
STEP 14:
Upon clicking on verify it redirects to https://goerli.etherscan.io/ there you can see your
transaction. If the data is sent into the blockchain you can see a success message in the
description.
STEP 15:
Now go to the bottom of the page there you can see an option called click to see more
click on it there you can find the input data in some binary and mixed hash version.
Click on view input data in utf-8 format there you can see the details of your certificate
describing your name, course and e-mail. 
